welcome to educator comms English
Composition course and one of the most
important things we have to learn how to
write is to make things shorter also
known as how to write a summary
summaries are like magic they shrink
things down I want you to look at this
article do you want to read all this do
you have time to read all this do you
think that I could go through this
entire lecture and read this word for
word no that's way too much reading
right now so what if I just read this
instead Samuel Langhorne Clemens AKA
Mark Twain was a popular American author
he was born in Missouri where many of
his stories take place he struggled
financially but later overcame his debts
he was born when Halley's Comet was
visible and died on his next return well
that was much easier wasn't it what I do
well I just summarized then that's where
you do when you are writing something
and you don't want to quote a large
block you just want to quote part of it
so what is summary summarization well
first off more important why do we need
it when we need it for those research
papers later you're going to be reading
several sources you're going to read
book after book after book an article
after article after article and you're
going to need to write in your writing
what are the main most important and
main points of these articles and books
and a few sentences because you don't
expect your reader to read the whole
thing so that's why you summarize
likewise book reports whenever you're
writing a book report in school you have
to summarize parts of the story and put
it shorter into you know take 20 pages
and make it one paragraph so that your
teacher isn't reading the whole book
outside of school there are still times
when we need to summarize working in
office being an administrative assistant
is one of the most important places
where people have to summarize political
aides the presidents are busy people and
so our governors and so Congress women
and so our senators and they have an
army of aides around them to read
important documents and then summarize
it for them so
they don't have to read the whole thing
also maybe someday you'll just start
your own blog I mean who knows and maybe
you'll read something and you'll want to
talk about it but you're not just going
to quote the entire article you're going
to quote a little bit of it right so the
plan for this lesson is a couple things
first just like with reading we're going
to talk about skimming and scanning and
then we're going to go over details
finally I'm going to introduce you to
asking the right kind of questions and
then we're going to learn how to
summarize a three-act story